# 1.4: Variables

## Making and Assigning Variables

Variables are how you store information in Python. When you assign a value to a variable, that variable will return its value whenever it's used in your code.
A single equals sign `=` assigns the value to its right to the variable to its left. In a new file called `variable_testing.py`, put a string in a variable called `var` and print the string.

```
var = 'Hello world!'
print(var)
```

The two lines above output `Hello world!` to the terminal, just like if you used `print('Hello world!')`.

There are two aspects of variables that demonstrate their usefulness:
1. Their value can be changed
2. They can be used multiple times in a program
3. They keep code tidy

For now, let's focus on aspect 1. Under the two lines in `variable_testing.py`, put another message in `var` and print it again.

```
var = 'Another message'
print(var)
```

When executed, `variable_testing.py` now outputs

```
Hello world!
Another message
```

## Conventions

One thing to keep in mind is that each variable usually uses only one data type.
Python does allow you to change the value from one type to another in the same variable, but programs usually become hard to understand when they get longer.
It's just good practice to assign values of one type to a single variable.

Another convention involves how you name variables. It's a good idea to start with a letter or underscore `_`; use only letters, numbers, and underscores in the name; and avoid Python keywords.
You should also keep in mind that Python's variables are case sensitive, so `var` would be different than `Var`.
Lastly, most variables' names should be entirely lowercase, with multiple words being separated by underscores.
